---
layout: travel
title: Egypt
menutitle: Egypt
menutype: travel
needPhotoSwipe: true
need360PhotoSwipe: true
tripDate: 2024-09-08
assetPath: 2024-09-Egypt
draft: false
---

# Egypt
08-September-2024

---

### Sharm-El-Sheikh

This year, my company [VDX.TV][vdxtv] decided to hold our semi-annual engineering summit at the Grand Rotana Hotel in [Sharm-El-Sheikh][sharm], [Egypt][egypt]. It is located on the shore of the [Red Sea][redsea], about 500 kilometers from [Cairo][cairo].

The hotel is situated on the east coast, making the sunrise spectacular. There was a small hill on the other side, which made the sunrise even more beautiful.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Rotana/Sunrise-01.jpg" alt="The sunrise at Rotana Grand Hotel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Rotana/Sunrise-02.jpg" alt="The sunrise at Rotana Grand Hotel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Rotana/Sunrise-03.jpg" alt="The sunrise at Rotana Grand Hotel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Rotana/Sunrise-04.jpg" alt="The sunrise at Rotana Grand Hotel" %}

The hotel was amazing. Its private beach had incredible [coral][coral] formations—the best I have seen in [Egypt][egypt].

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Rotana/Coral-01.jpg" alt="Coral at Rotana Grand Hotel beach" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Rotana/Coral-02.jpg" alt="Coral at Rotana Grand Hotel beach" %}
<!-- {% include function_travelimg.html img="OAT-01.jpg" alt="Theatre at Rotana Grand Hotel beach" %} -->

The official meetings were held from Monday, the 9th, to Sunday, the 13th. It was a packed schedule, but it wasn’t too boring. I spent most of my free time talking with others and had a great time during the summit.


## Egypt Trip
14-September-2024 -- 20th-September-2024

Once the summit was over, I decided to extend my trip to visit the ruins of ancient Egypt. However, my trip started with a boat ride to a coral reef for snorkeling and diving. I call it Day -1 (minus one), as it was arranged by my office.


### Day -1

The destination for the boat trip was about two hours away by boat. The place was filled with boats, resembling a floating village.


{% include function_travelimg.html img="Boat/BoatVillage-02.jpg" alt="Boats are going to the location" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Boat/BoatVillage-01.jpg" alt="Boats are gathered in the location" %}

We did scuba diving and snorkeling, followed by lunch. Snorkeling was a bit difficult as the gear was mostly defective. However, I still enjoyed the experience.

After lunch, the boat took us to another snorkeling spot. This second location was amazing, with plenty of colorful fish and corals.

<!-- {% include function_travelimg.html img="Boat/Boat-01.jpg" alt="Boats heading to the location" %} -->
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Boat/Boat-02.jpg" alt="View while returning to the port" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Boat/Boat-03.jpg" alt="View while returning to the port" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Boat/Boat-04.jpg" alt="Sunset from the boat on the way back to the port" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Boat/Boat-05.jpg" alt="Returning to the port" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Boat/Boat-06.jpg" alt="The port" %}

At the end of the day, we visited the local town. The entire town is like a mall, with all kinds of shops and stores.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Boat/Market-01.jpg" alt="A restaurant in the old market at Sharm-el-sheikh" %}

### Day 0

Our flight to [Cairo][cairo] was scheduled for the night of the next day (Sunday, 15th September), so we had a free day. We booked a package trip to the famous [Blue Hole][bluehole] in [Dahab][dahab]. The package included short ATV rides, a camel ride, snorkeling at the [Blue Hole][bluehole] (snorkeling gear was extra), and a visit to the [Coloured Canyon][colorconyon].

I enjoyed both the ATV and camel rides.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Dahab/ATV-01.jpg" alt="ATVs lined up for the adventure ahead" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Dahab/ATV-02.jpg" alt="I’m ready for the adventure ahead" %}
<!-- {% include function_travelimg.html img="Dahab/ATV-360-01.jpg" alt="ATVs lined up for the adventure ahead" is360="true" %} -->

However, the [Blue Hole][bluehole] was a bit of a disappointment. I didn’t snorkel, as there weren’t many corals to see. While the hole itself was prominent, it wasn’t as impressive as we had imagined. Since me and few others didn’t go snorkeling, our guide took us to a higher vantage point where we could take fantastic photos.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Dahab/Bluehole-01.jpg" alt="First view of the Blue Hole" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Dahab/Bluehole-02.jpg" alt="Panoramic view of the Blue Hole from the top of a hill" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Dahab/Bluehole-03.jpg" alt="Aerial view of the Blue Hole from the top of a hill" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Dahab/Bluehole-04.jpg" alt="Side view of the Blue Hole" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Dahab/Corals-01.jpg" alt="Some corals underwater, with sunlight reflections like diamonds" %}

After the visit to the [Blue Hole][bluehole], we headed to the [Coloured Canyon][colorconyon]. I’m not sure about its history, but the canyon was an incredible sight. Although it was very hot, I wished we could have spent more time there. I did manage to take plenty of beautiful photos.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Dahab/Canyon-01.jpg" alt="On the way to the Coloured Canyon" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Dahab/Canyon-02.jpg" alt="First view of the Coloured Canyon" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Dahab/Canyon-03.jpg" alt="Entrance to the Coloured Canyon" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Dahab/Canyon-05.jpg" alt="The magnificent Coloured Canyon" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Dahab/Canyon-04.jpg" alt="Someone tried to live inside the Coloured Canyon" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Dahab/Canyon-06.jpg" alt="View from the top of the Coloured Canyon" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Dahab/Canyon-07.jpg" alt="View from the top of the Coloured Canyon" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Dahab/Canyon-08.jpg" alt="View from the top of the Coloured Canyon" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Dahab/Canyon-09.jpg" alt="End of our trip through the Coloured Canyon" %}

After the trip, we returned to the hotel. I had already checked out in the morning, so I took a shower at the gym and had a quick dinner before we headed to the airport for our flight to [Cairo][cairo].

### Day 1
We hired a trip planner, **Mr. Omar (+201005433269)**, from [Luxor][luxor]. He arranged our entire trip, from airport pickup to airport drop-off. However, he did not arrange the hotel for Sunday night, so we booked a hotel in [Giza][giza], assuming we would visit the [Pyramids][pyramid] first. However, our guide had other plans, and we went to the [Egyptian Museum][egyptianmuseum] instead.

#### Egyptian Museum
The [Museum of Egyptian Antiquities][egyptianmuseum], or [Egyptian Museum][egyptianmuseum], is the oldest museum in [Egypt][egypt]. A true Egyptian tour begins with a visit to the [Egyptian Museum][egyptianmuseum].

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Museum-01.jpg" alt="The museum entrance" %}

The museum is filled with ancient Egyptian artifacts like stone and wooden sculptures, [sarcophagi][sarcophagus], [Sphinxes][sphynx], wall art, scripts, papyri, and much more. It didn’t make sense to capture too many pictures since most of them are readily available on the internet. So, I took minimal photos and enjoyed the tour. While most parts of the museum allow photography, the room with the [Funerary Golden Mask of King Tutankhamun][maskoftutenkhamen] has a strict no-photo policy. I accidentally took a picture there, and they politely asked me to delete it. Overall, the trip to the museum was fantastic.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Museum-02.jpg" alt="The sculpture of the king of Upper Egypt while he was alive" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Museum-03.jpg" alt="The sculpture of the king of Upper Egypt while he was dead" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Museum-04.jpg" alt="A stone sarcophagus" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Museum-05.jpg" alt="A Sphinx" %}


### The Perfume Shop, Hibiscus Tea, and Koshari

After visiting the [Egyptian Museum][egyptianmuseum], our guide took us to a perfume shop to store our luggage. Since we hadn’t had breakfast yet, they also arranged it for us.

In Egyptian tradition, they offer a welcome drink—either coffee, [Hibiscus tea][hibiscustea], or a cold drink. The perfume shop followed this tradition. This was the first time I had [Hibiscus tea][hibiscustea], and I loved it.

They also served us [Koshari][koshari] for breakfast (we paid for it), which is a staple food in Egypt. It was really tasty, but it was far more than we could manage for breakfast, so we were full for the rest of the day.

Since it was a perfume shop, they gave us a demonstration of their perfumes. However, the perfumes were extremely expensive, so we politely declined and left for the [Pyramids][pyramid].

#### Pyramids and Sphinx

The [Pyramids][pyramid] and the [Sphinx][sphynx] are the most iconic artifacts to visit in [Egypt][egypt]. Until now, I had only seen them in pictures, but in reality, they were just as magnificent as I had imagined. The pyramids are built on a high plateau, far above the [Nile]'s water level. The large pyramid consists of millions of individual stones, each likely weighing several tons. The sheer size of these stones is mind-blowing.

**Pyramids**


{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Pyramid-01.jpg" alt="Pyramids" %}

The [Pyramids][pyramid] are basically tombs for pharaohs and kings. However, they never share a pyramid with others. So, they built two other smaller pyramids for their wives and daughters. In total, there are nine pyramids. However, the smaller pyramids are almost gone. Pharaohs have also built tombs near the [Pyramids][pyramid]. These weren't pyramids, so they are just ruins.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Pyramid-02.jpg" alt="Pyramids" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Pyramid-03.jpg" alt="The Great Pyramid of Giza" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Me-01.jpg" alt="Me in front of the Great Pyramid of Giza" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Pyramid-04.jpg" alt="They built the Pyramid stone by stone" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Me-02.jpg" alt="Me in front of the Great Pyramid of Giza" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Pyramid-05.jpg" alt="The medium Pyramid" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Pyramid-06.jpg" alt="The small Pyramid" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Pyramid-07.jpg" alt="The medium Pyramid, view from the small Pyramid" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Pyramid-08.jpg" alt="Pyramids" %}

As all the [Pyramids][pyramid] are tombs, there are ways to go inside them. Our guide told us not to go inside the Great Pyramid of [Giza][giza], but to go inside the smaller pyramid instead. We took his advice. The experience was awesome. We had to go down through a narrow corridor where we could barely stand. The tomb was located at a depth. While the experience was fantastic, it was very suffocating.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/InPyramid-01.jpg" alt="The narrow tunnel to the tomb inside the Pyramid" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/InPyramid-02.jpg" alt="The path to inside the Pyramid to the tomb" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/InPyramid-03.jpg" alt="The final stair to the tomb" %}

**Sphynx**

Our next destination was the [Great Sphynx of Giza][greatsphynx]. A [Sphynx][sphynx] is a mythical creature one can read about on Wikipedia.

Our first view of the [Great Sphynx of Giza][greatsphynx] was from the road from the pyramids to the Sphynx. The [Great Sphynx of Giza][greatsphynx] is the largest [Sphynx][sphynx] ever found. It is still in its original location near the pyramids and very close to the River [Nile]. According to our guide, the River [Nile] used to come up to the front feet of the Sphynx.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Sphynx-01.jpg" alt="Two large pyramids and the Great Sphynx" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Sphynx-02.jpg" alt="Three pyramids and the Great Sphynx" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Sphynx-03.jpg" alt="Two large pyramids and the Great Sphynx" %}

Nowadays, the way to the [Great Sphynx of Giza][greatsphynx] is through the Inn. [Sphynx][sphynx] are solid, and there is no way to go inside.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Sphynx-04.jpg" alt="The way to the Great Sphynx" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Sphynx-05.jpg" alt="The Great Sphynx of Giza" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Me-03.jpg" alt="Tiny me beside the Great Sphynx" %}

Our trip at [Giza][giza] ends here. We headed towards the bus stop as we took a bus from [Cairo][cairo] to [Luxor][luxor].

#### The bus journey to Luxor

It was a 9.5-hour journey in a Mercedes Benz luxury bus. We started at 5:30 PM and reached by 3 AM. The bus stopped multiple times for food and restrooms.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day1/Bus-01.jpg" alt="The bus to Luxor" %}

### Day 2: Luxor

We reached Luxor 1 hour earlier than we anticipated at 3:00 AM. So, our tour guide put us on our cruise to freshen up and rest. However, it was very short, as we had to start our next adventure around 5 AM in the Morning.

#### Hot Air Balloon Ride

Our next adventure was to watch the sunrise from a hot air balloon. So, the balloon ride started when the sun was about to rise.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon_Banner-01.jpg" alt="Hot Air Balloon" %}

As the name suggests, it is a hot air balloon. A huge balloon filled with hot air lifts people up into the air. It is very hard to imagine the size of the balloon even after seeing it with my own eyes. It required well-coordinated help from many people to inflate the balloon.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon-00.jpg" alt="The balloon crew are preparing the balloon to inflate" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon-01.jpg" alt="Initially, the balloon needs to be inflated by blowing cold air" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon-02.jpg" alt="Finally, hot air would lift the balloon along with the basket" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon-03.jpg" alt="Balloons are ready to take off" %}

Once the balloons are inflated and the baskets are up, it is time to hop into the basket and enjoy the ride.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon-05.jpg" alt="Some balloons have started ascending" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon-04.jpg" alt="We have started ascending" %}

Initially, it was a bumpy ride, but pretty soon we were high in the sky, and nothing from the ground could stop our movements.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon-06.jpg" alt="We are ascending" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon-07.jpg" alt="We are pretty high" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon-08.jpg" alt="We can look below and see things other than the ground" %}

Slowly we gained enough altitude to see the other side of the [Nile] where the sun was about to rise. It was beautiful to see the sun rising from the hills.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon-09.jpg" alt="The sun is about to rise" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon-10.jpg" alt="We can take a peek at the sun" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon-11.jpg" alt="The sun has risen" %}

The sunrise is over. It is time to glide and find a suitable spot to land. While the balloon is maneuverable, it is neither easy nor precise. A little wind can ruin several minutes of course correction. So, we glided over the crops to find a suitable spot while avoiding the high voltage electric wires. However, this was the captain's concern. We were enjoying the view for as long as possible.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon-12.jpg" alt="We are gliding over the field with many other balloons" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon-13.jpg" alt="We can see the clear line between green and rocks" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon-14.jpg" alt="We are closer to the Nile and farther from the rocks" %}

Finally, we found a suitable spot and came down. However, the precise spot was being selected by the ground crew. They pulled the balloon while we were floating a few feet above the ground, then landed softly in the chosen spot.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon-15.jpg" alt="Ground crews are pulling the balloon" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Baloon-16.jpg" alt="They are busy packing the huge (still hot) balloon" %}

Our balloon ride finally came to an end. However, we were still excited from the experience.

After baloon ride, we were to go to the [Valley of the Kings][valleyofkings]. However, we haven't yet had breakfast. So, our guide arraged sandwiches with local hand made bread.

#### Valley of the Kings

We headed towards the [Valley of the Kings][valleyofkings]. It is a valley which contains underground tomb of kings and faraos. This tombs are more recent than the [Pyramids][pyramid] of [Giza][giza].

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Kings-01.jpg" alt="The 3d map of the valley including the under ground tombs" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Kings-02.jpg" alt="Entrance to the valley" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Kings-03.jpg" alt="The valley" %}

As the mummies along with treasure in the [Pyramids][pyramid] were being stolen, the kings decided to hide their mummies along with their treasures for afterlife. So, they have carved the limestone hills and placed the tomb inside.

So far we have found total 34 tombs. However, only 9 of the tombs are currently open for public. The entrance ticket allows to visit any 3 tomb. However, we managed to visit 2, 6, 8, and 11 tombs. The tombs are filled with paitings and sculptures. It is very hard to capture the beauty while being a tourist. However I took a few photos.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Kings-04.jpg" alt="Wall painting at one of the tombs" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Kings-05.jpg" alt="Hieroglyphs at one of the tombs" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Kings-06.jpg" alt="A tomb" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Kings-07.jpg" alt="The valley of kings" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Kings-08.jpg" alt="Wall painting at one of the tombs" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Kings-09.jpg" alt="Wall painting at one of the tombs" %}

#### Karnak Village

After visiting the [Valley of the Kings][valleyofkings], our guide took us to Karnak Village where artisans make things from alabaster stone. We managed to reduce the price to 10% of the asking price.

#### Karnak Temple

Our next destination was [Karnak Temple][karnaktemple]. It is located in the heart of [Luxor][luxor]. The original temple was massive and built on a very large area. It also had a direct connection to river [Nile]. Currently only a few parts of the original temple is open for visit.

The entrance of the temple has several [Sphynx][sphynx] most of which are destroyed.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Karnak-00.jpg" alt="The Karnak temple: Entrance" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Karnak-01.jpg" alt="The Karnak temple: Entrance" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Karnak-02.jpg" alt="The Karnak temple: Sphynx" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Karnak-04.jpg" alt="The Karnak temple" %}

After the entrance it has a open area. Here we have multiple pillers standing about 10mtr high and 2mtr widths. Like all other temple, all the walls are full of painting and carving. It also has two obelix standing there.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Karnak-03.jpg" alt="The Karnak temple" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Karnak-05.jpg" alt="The Karnak temple" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Karnak-06.jpg" alt="Obelisk inside the Karnak Temple" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Karnak-07.jpg" alt="Pillars inside the Karnak Temple" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Karnak-08.jpg" alt="Pillars inside the Karnak Temple" %}

We left [Karnak Temple][karnaktemple] around 1PM. We had to pay Mr. Omar for our trip and also catch the cruise. We did not visit the [Luxor Temple][luxortemple]. However, I took a few photos from the car. The photos aren't very good.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Luxor-01.jpg" alt="The Luxor temple from the road" %}


#### Experience on the Cruise

Even though we checked in at cruise at 3:40am, we were only there for an hour before heading for balloon ride.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Cruise-01.jpg" alt="The dock where our cruise were docked at the morning" %}

After visiting [Karnak Temple][karnaktemple], we rushed back to the cruise. It was almost lunch time and we were very tired. So, we had our lunch and went to sleep. The lunch was fantastic. Many different kind of salad, vegetables and deserts were there.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Cruise-02.jpg" alt="Our room in the cruise were awesome and cozy" %}

I woke up after sleeping for few hours. I saw some local people trying to sell saris through the window.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Cruise-03.jpg" alt="Local sellers are coming near the cruise" %}

In the afternoon I went up to the sundeck to watch our ship crossing a dam. The dam was small. However, process was same as the Panama Canal lock. But only one stage. It was a interesting surprise.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/LockGate-01.jpg" alt="Our cruise have to rise up before it can go throught the lock" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/LockGate-02.jpg" alt="Water level at the both side equalise. The gate is about to open." %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/LockGate-02.jpg" alt="Anothe dam crossing" %}

In the evening, the sunset from the dock was breathtaking.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/CruiseSunset-01.jpg" alt="Sunset from the cruise" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/CruiseSunset-02.jpg" alt="Sunset from the cruise" %}

There was another surprise waiting for us in the evening. There was a free cocktail party. The party was well decorated and had nice separation between alcoholic and non alcoholic cocktails. However, they both look the same.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Cruise-04.jpg" alt="Cocktail Party" %}

The deck was even more prettier at night.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Cruise-05.jpg" alt="The Swiming pool" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Cruise-06.jpg" alt="Rest of the Deck" %}

It was also a full moon.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Moon-01.jpg" alt="Full Moon" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day2/Moon-02.jpg" alt="Full Moon" %}

We reached [Edfu] town around 10:30pm and docked there for the night.


### Day 3: Edfu & Kom Ombo

On Wednesday morning, we received a wake-up call from the ship. After having breakfast on the ship, we went out. Our tour guide was already waiting for us. He took us to the [Temple of Edfu] using a horse-drawn cart.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/HorseCart-01.jpg" alt="The horse-drawn cart" %}

The town itself is quite simple and ordinary. It is very similar to towns in India. In fact, they have Indian [Auto Rickshaw]s for public transport, which are imported from India.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/TheEdfuTown-01.jpg" alt="The Edfu town outside the temple" %}

#### Edfu Temple
The [Temple of Edfu] is the second largest temple in Egypt after the Karnak Temple. It is also the best-preserved temple so far. Interestingly, it is located on the west side of the river [Nile], which is peculiar since ancient Egyptians believed that the west side of the [Nile] River was the land of death. However, this particular temple was built by the [Greeks] after they occupied [Egypt][egypt].

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/EdfuTemple-01.jpg" alt="Main entrance to the Temple of Edfu" %}

The [Temple of Edfu] is a temple of revenge and victory. Essentially, God [Horus] took revenge for his mother [Isis] against [Set]. The story is interesting, and it becomes even more fascinating with the wall paintings. The entire temple is rich in symbolism, just like everything else in ancient Egypt.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/EdfuTemple-07.jpg" alt="The painting for storytelling" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/EdfuTemple-08.jpg" alt="The painting for storytelling" %}

The temple was built by ten different kings, from [Ptolemy III Euergetes][ptolemni3] to [Ptolemy XII Auletes][ptolemi12]. The outside paintings and carvings depict the 12th king [Ptolemy XII Auletes][ptolemi12].

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/EdfuTemple-03.jpg" alt="The sculpture of Horus. This is the intact one." %}

The temple begins with a common area where the general public could present their offerings to the god. It is surrounded by three walls, leading to the holy part of the temple. These three walls also have 32 stone pillars, similar to the Karnak Temple. These 32 pillars represent the 30 priests, the high priest, and the king.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/EdfuTemple-09.jpg" alt="One side of the common area" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/EdfuTemple-02.jpg" alt="Inner entrance to the Temple of Edfu. Reserved for the privileged." %}

The holy part of the temple is primarily made up of pillars with very tall ceilings. At the end of the holy area, there is a sacred space where Horus resided. The high priest or the king would present their offerings to the god three times a day. They would not turn their backs on the god, so they would walk backward while leaving.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/EdfuTemple-05.jpg" alt="The inner hall." %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/EdfuTemple-04.jpg" alt="The innermost chamber. Only the king and the high priest were allowed here." %}

I enjoyed this temple the most. The guide was awesome and very knowledgeable. He told us the mythological story, which somewhat matches the movie [Gods of Egypt].

#### A New Member in Our Room
After the visit to the [Temple of Edfu], we returned to the ship. When we entered the ship, there was a surprise waiting for us.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/Ship-01.jpg" alt="The surprise in our room" %}

#### Kom Ombo Temple

Our next stop was the [Temple of Kom Ombo]. The temple is situated on the west bank of the river [Nile]. Our ship literally docked at the foot of the temple.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-01.jpg" alt="The first view of the Kom Ombo temple" %}

The temple's original entrance no longer exists, as one of the pillars from the entrance gate fell into the [Nile] due to erosion and earthquakes.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-06.jpg" alt="Current entrance to the temple" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-07.jpg" alt="Current entrance to the temple" %}

The [Temple of Kom Ombo] is dedicated to two gods: [Sobek] and [Haroeris]. It was built during the [Ptolemaic Kingdom]. The entire temple is divided into two sections for the two gods.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-04.jpg" alt="Inauguration of Haroeris" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-05.jpg" alt="Inauguration of Sobek" %}

The temple also contains a festive calendar, which provides information about the offerings to be made to the gods on specific days of the month in particular seasons.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-02.jpg" alt="The festive calendar" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-03.jpg" alt="The festive calendar" %}

There is a well on the temple grounds. People used to collect water from the well into a small tank. There was also a hospital behind the temple. According to our guide, ancient Egyptians performed surgeries as well.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-08.jpg" alt="The well for water" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-09.jpg" alt="The well for water" %}

The temple also has a rich mythological story. However, I can't recall it completely. I did take many photos there, and those photos turned out great.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-10.jpg" alt="The Temple of Kom Ombo" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-11.jpg" alt="The Temple of Kom Ombo" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-12.jpg" alt="The Temple of Kom Ombo" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-13.jpg" alt="The Temple of Kom Ombo" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-14.jpg" alt="The Temple of Kom Ombo" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-15.jpg" alt="The Temple of Kom Ombo" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-16.jpg" alt="The Temple of Kom Ombo" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-17.jpg" alt="The Temple of Kom Ombo" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/KomOmbo-18.jpg" alt="The Temple of Kom Ombo" %}

#### The Crocodile Museum

There is a modern [Crocodile Mummy Museum][croco museum] beside the [Temple of Kom Ombo]. It contains several crocodile mummies.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day3/Crocs-01.jpg" alt="Crocodile Mummy" %}

Our day ends here. We returned to the ship and headed for [Aswan].

### Day 4

Our Day 4 started very early as we checked out of the cruise at 4 a.m. and began our journey to the [Temple of Abu Simbel][Abu Simbel], which is about 200 km south of [Aswan]. Since it was a long journey, we stopped at a spot during sunrise and got a fantastic view of the sun rising in the desert.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/SunRise-01.jpg" alt="Sunrise" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/SunRise-02.jpg" alt="Sunrise" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/SunRise-03.jpg" alt="Sunrise" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/Road-01.jpg" alt="The road" %}

#### Abu Simbel

The [Abu Simbel] temple is situated beside [Lake Nasser]. [Lake Nasser] was formed when the [Aswan High Dam] was built on the river [Nile]. Essentially, the [Aswan High Dam] created a 500 km long lake, of which [Lake Nasser] is a part.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/LakeNasser-01.jpg" alt="Lake Nasser from Abu Simbel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/LakeNasser-02.jpg" alt="Lake Nasser from Abu Simbel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/LakeNasser-03.jpg" alt="Lake Nasser from Abu Simbel" %}

The [Abu Simbel] site consists of two massive rock-cut temples. The temples are dedicated to the great king [Ramesses II] and his wife [Nefertari]. The entrance to both temples features four colossal statues, with the great temple having larger statues.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/AbuSimbel-01.jpg" alt="Entrance to the great temple of Abu Simbel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/AbuSimbel-02.jpg" alt="Entrance to the smaller temple of Abu Simbel" %}

The interiors have multiple chambers and pillars. All the walls and ceilings are adorned with paintings and carvings.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/AbuSimbel-03.jpg" alt="Inside the great temple of Abu Simbel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/AbuSimbel-04.jpg" alt="Inside the great temple of Abu Simbel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/AbuSimbel-05.jpg" alt="Inside the great temple of Abu Simbel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/AbuSimbel-06.jpg" alt="Inside the great temple of Abu Simbel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/AbuSimbel-07.jpg" alt="Inside the great temple of Abu Simbel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/AbuSimbel-08.jpg" alt="Inside the great temple of Abu Simbel" %}

The original temple was well below the current water level at Lake Nasser. UNESCO moved the entire temple to higher ground. In fact, UNESCO has saved several such temples by relocating them.

We finished our tour of [Abu Simbel] a little early. After [Abu Simbel], we went to the [Temple of Philae].

#### Temple of Philae

The [Temple of Philae] is situated just beside the [Aswan Low Dam] on an island. Therefore, one needs to take a ferry to reach the temple.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/Philae-01.jpg" alt="View of the Temple of Philae from the ferry" %}

It is another temple that was submerged in water after the first dam was built. They moved the entire temple stone by stone to higher ground. Although they did a great job, it is not perfect, as the chosen high ground is smaller than the original site. They had to squeeze the temple, which resulted in a poor layout where walls are placed directly in front of other walls.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/Philae-02.jpg" alt="View of the Temple of Philae" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/Philae-03.jpg" alt="View of the Temple of Philae" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/Philae-04.jpg" alt="View of the Temple of Philae" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/Philae-05.jpg" alt="View of the Temple of Philae" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/Philae-06.jpg" alt="View of the Temple of Philae" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/Philae-07.jpg" alt="View of the Temple of Philae" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/Philae-08.jpg" alt="View of the Temple of Philae" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/Philae-10.jpg" alt="View of the Temple of Philae" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/Philae-11.jpg" alt="View of the Temple of Philae" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/Philae-12.jpg" alt="View of the Temple of Philae" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/Philae-13.jpg" alt="View of the Temple of Philae" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day4/Philae-14.jpg" alt="View of the Temple of Philae" %}

#### New Fake Nubian Village

The Nubians lived south of the old dam. However, they had to move to the north of it as the original village got flooded. Now, the entire village is dependent on tourism. They also keep crocodiles as an exhibition.

Everyone in my group loved this village. They even petted the crocodiles for photos. However, I hated this place. Everything about this village feels fake and serves only one purpose: to milk the tourists. Every brick, design, and street is there to lure visitors. It feels more like a market than a village.

I also dislike the idea of petting crocodiles. They aren’t really pets; they’re just showpieces for tourists. The villagers keep those crocodiles in extremely confined spaces where they can’t even stretch. When they give a crocodile to a tourist, they tie its jaws so it can't bite. It was so cruel. I didn’t pet it.

#### Aswan

After visiting the Nubian village, we went to a restaurant near the Aswan railway station. We left our bags there and visited the local market after having some lunch.

#### The Sleeping Train

We arrived at the station almost 45 minutes before departure. The train was there, so we boarded it.

The train was a big disappointment. The cabin is really small for the price, and it is well below standard. A three-tier AC train in India is way better than this.

While the train was quite dirty and they did not provide any towels, the bed was clean, and we slept very well. The next morning, we woke up pretty late and started preparing ourselves for deboarding at El-Giza Station. The train was running on time.

### Day 5

We arrived in [Cairo][cairo] on time and deboarded at El-Giza Station. As always, our guide was ready at the station with a car. After freshening up a bit, we started our sightseeing.

#### Museum of Civilization

Our first destination was the [Musée de la civilisation], otherwise known as the [Museum of Civilizations][Musée de la civilisation]. It is a newly built museum showcasing the evolution of Egyptian civilization starting from about 35,000 BC. However, the highlight of this museum is its collection of mummies.

The [Musée de la civilisation] has a vast collection of mummies that are arranged chronologically. While the experience is awesome, no photography is allowed inside this place.

#### Cairo Citadel

Our next destination was the [Cairo Citadel], or Citadel of Saladin. It is relatively modern and primarily serves as an administrative building. It features a large mosque, and I took several photos.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day5/Citadel-01.jpg" alt="Cairo Citadel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day5/Citadel-02.jpg" alt="Cairo Citadel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day5/Citadel-03.jpg" alt="Cairo Citadel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day5/Citadel-04.jpg" alt="Cairo Citadel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day5/Citadel-05.jpg" alt="Cairo Citadel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day5/Citadel-06.jpg" alt="Cairo Citadel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day5/Citadel-07.jpg" alt="Cairo Citadel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day5/Citadel-08.jpg" alt="Cairo Citadel" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day5/Citadel-09.jpg" alt="Cairo Citadel" %}

After the Citadel, we headed to the local market for some shopping. Everyone bought some souvenirs and enjoyed the vibrant atmosphere. We ended our day by heading back to our hotel for dinner.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Day5/Cairo-01.jpg" alt="Some where in cairo" %}



[sharm]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sharm_El_Sheikh
[egypt]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Egypt
[vdxtv]: https://vdx.tv/
[redsea]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Sea
[coral]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coral
[cairo]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cairo
[bluehole]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blue_Hole_(Red_Sea)
[dahab]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dahab
[colorconyon]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coloured_Canyon
[luxor]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luxor
[giza]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Giza
[pyramid]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pyramid
[egyptianmuseum]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Egyptian_Museum
[sarcophagus]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sarcophagus
[sphynx]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sphinx
[maskoftutenkhamen]: https://egyptianmuseumcairo.eg/artefacts/mask-of-tutankhamun/
[hibiscustea]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hibiscus_tea
[koshari]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Koshary
[Nile]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nile
[greatsphynx]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Sphinx_of_Giza
[valleyofkings]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Valley_of_the_Kings
[karnaktemple]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karnak
[luxortemple]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luxor_Temple
[Auto Rickshaw]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Auto_rickshaw
[Edfu]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edfu
[Temple of Edfu]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temple_of_Edfu
[Greeks]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greeks
[Horus]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Horus
[Isis]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isis
[Set]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Set_(deity)
[Gods of Egypt]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gods_of_Egypt_(film)
[ptolemi12]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ptolemy_XII_Auletes
[ptolemi3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ptolemy_III_Euergetes
[Temple of Kom Ombo]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temple_of_Kom_Ombo
[Sobek]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sobek
[Haroeris]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Horus#Heru-ur_(Horus_the_Elder)
[Ptolemaic Kingdom]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ptolemaic_Kingdom
[croco museum]: https://egymonuments.gov.eg/museums/crocodile-museum/
[Aswan]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aswan
[Abu Simbel]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abu_Simbel
[Lake Nasser]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lake_Nasser
[Aswan High Dam]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aswan_Dam
[Ramesses II]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ramesses_II
[Nefertari]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nefertari
[Temple of Philae]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philae_temple_complex
[Aswan Low Dam]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aswan_Low_Dam
[Musée de la civilisation]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mus%C3%A9e_de_la_civilisation
[Cairo Citadel]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cairo_Citadel
