---
layout: travel
title: 1st Visit to Office
menutype: travel
needPhotoSwipe: true
tripDate: 2022-06-20
assetPath: 2022-06-vdxtv
---

## VDX.TV
20-Jun-2022 -- 24-Jun-2022

---

I am employed in [VDX.TV](vdx.tv) for a year now and this is my first visit to the office. It is situated pretty in pretty remote area compared to Delhi. It is at sector 142. Luckily there is a metro sation just in front of the office building. Although it is not normal metro like delhi (i.e. delhi metro card wont work here), it well connected with the delhi metro.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="Office-1.jpg" alt="VDX.TV" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Office-2.jpg" alt="VDX.TV" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="Office-3.jpg" alt="VDX.TV" %}
<br />
<br />

### The Guest House
We (VDX.TV) have a guest house aproximately 4KM from the office. It is 4BHK apart in a apartment complex called ATS Green Village.
<br />
<br />

### Delhi Metro
{% include function_travelyt.html yt="vEo8qJB1qHE" %}
<br />
<br />

### India Gate
The [India Gate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/India_Gate) is pretty far from my office. However it is connected via metro, so it is breeze. I went to there without knowing anything about the place. Just saw in the map that I have to get down from metro blue line at Mandie House station. After that I can walk. I was interested in the India Gate inself. However, I end up at the India Gate complex. There was a fantastic view of India Gate, but I could not go any where near the India Gate.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="IndiaGate-1.jpg" alt="India Gate" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="IndiaGate-2.jpg" alt="India Gate" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="IndiaGate-3.jpg" alt="India Gate" %}

To my suprise, the tour take me to Amar Jawan complex where flag celebration was happening at that time. Checkout the following video.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="AmarJawan-1.jpg" alt="India Gate" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="AmarJawan-2.jpg" alt="India Gate" %}
{% include function_travelyt.html yt="mOpU8CbcF6o" %}
<br />
<br />

### Lotus Temple
The [Lotus Temple](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lotus_Temple) is Baháʼí House of Worship. It is a interesting achitecture. The inner area is very cozy, slient and peaceful.
{% include function_travelimg.html img="LotusTemple-01.jpg" alt="Lotus Temple" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="LotusTemple-02.jpg" alt="Lotus Temple" %}
