---
layout: travel
title: Trip to Dawki
menutype: travel
needPhotoSwipe: true
menu_order: 100
assetPath: 2022-03-dawki
---

## Dawki
05-Mar-2022

---

[Dawki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dawki) is a border crossing. It provides awesome India-Bangla Desh border. There is a beach and one can do boating in the river. The water is so clear that one see the bottom of the river. Another surprise is the border. The border is on the beach. One can cross the border mistakenly. Also, one can purchase staff from Bangla Desh's vendor without crossing any border as well.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="dawki-1.jpg" alt="Dwaki" %}

### Elephants Falls
Elephants Falls is three step falls on the road to the Dawki. It is really beautiful although it pretty deep.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="elephants-1.jpg" alt="Elephants Falls" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="elephants-2.jpg" alt="Elephants Falls" %}

### Mawlynnong Living Root Bridge
Mawlynnong Living Root Bridge is one of living root bridges in Meghalaya. The bridge approx 7mtr long and 1.5mtr wide. It is maintaned by the local peoples.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="livingroot.jpg" alt="Mawlynnong Living Root Bridge" %}

### Boating at Dawki
We went for boating at Dawki river. It is really interesting experience. The water is extreamly clean. Boating costs us Rs. 800/- per boat where capacity is three people per boat. Dowki beach was very crowed on the day we went there specially at Bangladesh side.


{% include function_travelimg.html img="dawki-2.jpg" alt="Dawki Beach" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="dawki-3.jpg" alt="Dawki Beach" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="dawki-4.jpg" alt="Dawki Beach" %}
{% include function_travelyt.html yt="DhRUIVOBzrU" %}

### Camping at Darrang
Darrang and dawki close by. While dawki support camping, we decided to go for darang as it was less crowded. The camp organiser took us to opposite side of the river via a boat. They arranged the tent and bon-fire. We meet a local family camping there. They were very nice people and we enjoyed the camping there.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="darrang-1.jpg" alt="Darrang" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="darrang-2.jpg" alt="Darrang" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="darrang-3.jpg" alt="Darrang" %}

### Krangsuri Falls
While caming back to guwahati, we visit Kangsuri Falls and enjoyed it's mesmerising beauty.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="krangsuri-1.jpg" alt="Krangsuri Falls" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="krangsuri-2.jpg" alt="Krangsuri Falls" %}
{% include function_travelyt.html yt="aEx_Fic2MO4" %}

