---
layout: travel
title: Sikkim
menutitle: Sikkim
menutype: travel
needPhotoSwipe: true
tripDate: 2026-05-30
assetPath: 2026-05-Sikkim
draft: true
---

## Sikkim Trip
30-May-2026 -- 2-June-2026

Sikkim is situated north of the West Bengal. It is small state in Himalyan region.

It was a spontenous trip. So, we could not get a train ticket in time. However, it is not problem as we (me and my wife) started from Kolkata and there are many night service buses. So, we picked a bus and started for Siliguri.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="day1/Cover-01.jpg" alt="Gangtak: view from Gonjang Monestry" %}

### Day 1:

The journey was smooth and we reached Siliguri in time. The we picked a public bus to Gangtok. Again this jouney was uneventfull and reached our prebooked hotel in Gangtok arround 1PM.

After we freshed up a bit, we started for sight-seeing.

We visited multiple water falls, all of them were awesome.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="day1/WaterFalls-01.jpg" alt="Bakthang Waterfall" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="day1/WaterFalls-02.jpg" alt="Lhasa Waterfall" %}

We visited Hongzong monestry. It was nothing like Rumtek, however, the view of valley was awesome.

There was two view point. Which were awesome.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="day1/ViewPoint-01.jpg" alt="View from the Tashi view point" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="day1/ViewPoint-02.jpg" alt="View from the Ganesh Tok view point" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="day1/ViewPoint-03.jpg" alt="View from the Ganesh Tok view point" %}

At the end, we went to Flower Exhibition Centre - Ridge Park. It was not that good. I mean it supposed to have collections of archid. However, it has hardly 3-4 variety. Which is not worth for the exborbitent ticket price.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="day1/Orcid-01.jpg" alt="Wax statue at the Flower Exhibition Centre - Ridge Park" %}

However, at the end, driver dropped at mg-marg. We stroll a bit and then had our dinner.


### Day 2:

On the day 2, we went to Rumtek monestry followed by the Banjhakri falls.


{% include function_travelimg.html img="day2/Rumtek-01.jpg" alt="Rumtek Monestary" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="day2/Falls-01.jpg" alt="Banjhakri falls" %}

### Day 3:
On day3 we went to towards Tsomgo Lake. It is situated around 70 KM from the Gangtak. We find multiple awesome views on the way. It was the day to take photos.

{% include function_travelimg.html img="day3/OnTheWay-01.jpg" alt="Some where on the way towards Tsomgo Lake" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="day3/OnTheWay-02.jpg" alt="Some where on the way towards Tsomgo Lake" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="day3/OnTheWay-03.jpg" alt="Some where on the way towards Tsomgo Lake" %}

Finaly we reached the Tsomgo Lake.


{% include function_travelimg.html img="day3/Lake-01.jpg" alt="The Tsomgo Lake" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="day3/Lake-02.jpg" alt="The Tsomgo Lake" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="day3/Lake-03.jpg" alt="The Tsomgo Lake" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="day3/Lake-04.jpg" alt="The Tsomgo Lake" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="day3/Lake-05.jpg" alt="The Tsomgo Lake" %}

After the Tsomgo Lake, we started for the Baba Mandir. Found more awesome view on the way.


{% include function_travelimg.html img="day3/OnTheWay-03.jpg" alt="Some where on the way towards Baba Mandir" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="day3/OnTheWay-04.jpg" alt="Some where on the way towards Baba Mandir" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="day3/OnTheWay-05.jpg" alt="Some where on the way towards Baba Mandir" %}
{% include function_travelimg.html img="day3/OnTheWay-06.jpg" alt="Some where on the way towards Baba Mandir" %}

While we were enjoying baba mandir, it started raining. So we started towards Gangtak and concluded our tour.

<!-- {% include function_travelimg.html img="Us-02.jpg" alt="The Magnificent Bhatinda Falls" %} -->

<!-- {% include function_travelyt.html yt="81Wyfu85RJA" %} -->

<!-- [bhatindafalls]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bhatinda_Falls
[dhanbad]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dhanbad -->